In this video,
we're going to learn about
inheritance and Typscript.
So TypeScripts support the object-oriented concept
of inheritance.
So it defines common properties
and methods in the superclass,
the subclasses can extend superclasses
and add properties and methods.
And it is also support for abstract classes
and overriding.
But one thing that's important here is that
TypeScript only support single inheritance.
However, you can implement multiple interfaces.
Alrighty, so let's look at an inheritance example.
So I'll have a shape, that has x and y for the location,
get or set our accessors,
and then also a getInfo() method.
And then we'll have subclasses here.
So a circle, it adds an additional property here, radius,
again it's get or set our accessors,
and then also, it can override the getInfo() method.
Basically a string representation of the given item.
And we can do a similar thing on the right hand side
with rectangle.
We can add two properties here,
width and length,
the get or setters,
and also overriding the getInfo() method accordingly.
And we'll see some examples of this with real code.
All right so let's look at the code here for our shape class
So we have a constructor,
that has a private _x and y,
these are our parameter properties,
remember, it defines and assigns them at the same time.
So this getInfo() method returns
x= $this._x
and y=$this._y
So just a nice string representation
for this given shape.
And then we'll go ahead and set up our circle,
so our circle extends shape,
so the extends keyword is for inheritance.
We define our constructor.
So at the top we have regular parameters,
theX and theY,
and then we also have a parameter property
_radius.
And then we call the superclass constructor
and we pass in those regular parameters x and y.
And so then we'll have this getInfo() method
that we override from the superclass.
So here, for this example,
I have return super.getInfo()
so I call this superclass version of this method.
And then I add-on my specific information
radius=$(this._radius)
Alrighty so now let's go ahead and pull it altogether
by creating a main application.
So just as a recap
there's our shape class and also our circle class.
And so here in our driver
we do our imports accordingly.
And then we create a new shape
passing the x,y 10, 15
and we do a console log on my shape.
And then similar thing here for circle
so x,y, radius
and then we'll do a console.log on myCircle.
And so we run this application
this is our given output.
So the first line here is for displaying the shape.
And then the second line is for displaying the circle.
And notice how it makes use of the
overwritten version of the getInfo() method
for that given circle.
Alrighty so let's extend our example a bit more here
and let's create the rectangle subclass.
So Rectangle extends Shape.
And we have our constructor.
So our constructor makes use of two regular parameters,
theX and theY,
and also two parameter properties
for the wide and the length
for this given rectangle.
And then we also call the superclass constructor
by doing super(theX, theY).
And then we override the getInfo() method
so we can give our own specific implementation here.
So here I say return super.getInfo()
so I called it superclass method.
And then I add on the specific information
for this given subclass I have
width=$(this._width),
and length=$(this._length).
And that's basically it for rectangle.
All right so let's go ahead and support for the rectangle
in our main application.
So here's our code from before.
So then I go ahead and create
myRectangle = new Rectangle
I pass in the x, y, width, length.
And then I do a console.log(myRectangle.getInfo().
So then once we run this application here is the output.
So the first line's is for my shape,
then my circle,
and then my rectangle.
And they can't notice how it's using
the overwritten version of the getInfo() methods
for myCircle and myRectangle.
Okay so let's go ahead a create an array of shapes.
So we have three shapes right now,
myShape,
myCircle,
myRectangle,
so I'll declare an array for the shapes,
and it's going to be initially empty,
so I'll say
theShapes: Shape [] = [];
so it's an empty array right now
but it can only hold shapes and shapes subclasses.
All right so now I'll go ahead and add the shapes
to the array here so I'll say
theShapes.push(myShape);
and I'll do a similar thing for myCircle and myRectangle,
so we're simply adding things to the array.
And so then I'll set up a for loop here, I'll say
(let tempShape of theShapes)
and I'll do a
console.log(tempShape.getInfo)
And so here's the output here
so we get the info for myShape and myCircle
and then finally myRectangle.
Okay great.
So let's go ahead and move into our IDE
and let's test out this coding.